content/projects.md, before:

+++
title = "Projects"
slug = "projects"
+++

Here are some of the projects I have worked on:

- [Pod Escape](https://github.com/CodeCafeOpenShiftGame/PodEscape): Endless Runner Game developed using Godot in which you are a Kubernetes pod trying to escape from the deletion of the namespace you were deployed. **Co-designer and Co-developer**. Playable [here](https://arcade.redhat.com/pod-escape/).
- [Marinera](https://github.com/FIWARE-Ops/marinera): A subset of the FIWARE platform with CI/CD tooling to make it easier to deploy on top of OpenShift. **Contributor**.
- [Writing](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/writing): An app that writes continously to `/tmp` created for demoing `Resource Quotas` on Kubernetes. **Developer**.
- [OpenShift Unused Projects](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/openshift-unused-projects): Set of scripts created to get an overview of some OpenShift projects are probably not being used. **Developer**.
- [Overworld Tactics](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/ProjectCastle): Tactics game with two levels and three difficulties created for my final project at University. Developed using LibGDX. **Designer and Developer**. Downloadable [here](https://pangan33.itch.io/overworld-tactics)

Commit message:

Add bookinfo operator to projects

content/projects.md, after:

+++
title = "Projects"
slug = "projects"
+++

Here are some of the projects I have worked on:

- [Pod Escape](https://github.com/CodeCafeOpenShiftGame/PodEscape): Endless Runner Game developed using Godot in which you are a Kubernetes pod trying to escape from the deletion of the namespace you were deployed. **Co-designer and Co-developer**. Playable [here](https://arcade.redhat.com/pod-escape/).
- [Marinera](https://github.com/FIWARE-Ops/marinera): A subset of the FIWARE platform with CI/CD tooling to make it easier to deploy on top of OpenShift. **Contributor**.
- [Bookinfo Operator](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/bookinfo-operator): A Kubernetes Operator capable of deploying the Bookinfo application. **Developer**.
- [Writing](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/writing): An app that writes continously to `/tmp` created for demoing `Resource Quotas` on Kubernetes. **Developer**.
- [OpenShift Unused Projects](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/openshift-unused-projects): Set of scripts created to get an overview of some OpenShift projects are probably not being used. **Developer**.
- [Overworld Tactics](https://github.com/ernesgonzalez33/ProjectCastle): Tactics game with two levels and three difficulties created for my final project at University. Developed using LibGDX. **Designer and Developer**. Downloadable [here](https://pangan33.itch.io/overworld-tactics)
